1. For my project, I plan on using a Raspberry Pi, a camera, and a locally run YOLO model to monitor vehicle traffic throughout the day. I plan on using this traffic data to identify observable patterns. For my MVP, I plan to set up a camera on a local street I have clear visibility of from my apartment window. I want to build a program that can recognize the number of vehicles and the time at which they pass. This data should then be stored locally and be usable for deriving analytics. Stretch goals include being able to recognize parking occupancy along the street-side and creating a frontend to display the live camera feed and data reports.
2. I've never used a Pi before, and I've definitely never used a CV model before. I hope by the end of this project, I have an understanding of how to deploy a CV model locally and also how to run a program that runs somewhat persistently (not just once). Also running on a Pi means I will have to consider hardware constraints, which will impact aspects like video quality, data storage quantity, and the size of the CV model.
3. As it stands, I've identified the YOLO family of models as those that I will deploy on my Pi and know I will be running a pre-trained version. The next steps, as I currently see them, are as follows: A) I've assembled the Pi, bought an SD card, and have managed to run a basic set of programs. My next steps are to be able to collect live camera data from the camera I have hooked up. B) Once I can collect camera data, I plan on downloading/deploying the CV model on the Pi. C) From here, I will plan on being able to recognize vehicles on the street and the number of them at a given model shot. D) This data then needs to be aggregated across a day and stored locally. E) Once I'm able to collect this data I need to write programs to derive insights like peak traffic hours, total number of vehicles across the day, etc.
4. For the next week, I plan on working on steps A & B. Over the course of the Thanksgiving break, when I have more time, I really want to focus on being able to at least have my program recognize vehicles across frames. The following weeks will be spent using this data and trying to build actionable reports with it. I think this step may also inform me on other data I may want to collect/need.
5. Solo project. Plan on trying to adhere to my above timeline and fill it in with more details as I better understand the steps I need to take.
6. I think the biggest risk to this project is my lack of understanding of CV models. So it's very possible some of the tasks I'm trivializing in my head may in reality be far more complex. This is why I've tried to limit my initial project to (what I think is) an approachable scope.
7. I plan on reviewing OOP practices so that I can write my program into a more production-quality project, especially if I plan on trying to build on it at a later date to be usable across other locations and in more complex scenarios, i.e., a construction zone on another street.
